# Introduction

This is a [Helm](https://helm.sh/) chart for installing Mastodon into a
Kubernetes cluster.  The basic usage is:

1. edit `values.yaml` or create a separate yaml file for custom values
1. `helm dep update`
1. `helm install --namespace mastodon --create-namespace my-mastodon ./ -f path/to/additional/values.yaml`

This chart is tested with k8s 1.21+ and helm 3.6.0+.

# Configuration

The variables that _must_ be configured are:

- password and keys in the `mastodon.secrets`, `postgresql`, and `redis` groups; if
  left blank, some of those values will be autogenerated, but will not persist
  across upgrades.

- SMTP settings for your mailer in the `mastodon.smtp` group.

## GitOps (ArgoCD) configuration

The helm hooks configured in the job manifests will break deployments in situations where GitOps tools like ArgoCD are used. To make sure the deployment works, you need to set the additional hook annotations in the `values.yaml` file. For ArgoCD, this means that the [resource hooks](https://argo-cd.readthedocs.io/en/stable/user-guide/resource_hooks/#usage) need to be used, in this case, the `PostSync` hook, which according to the docs, executes after all `Sync` hooks were completed and were successful, an application is successful, and all resources are in a Healthy state. This allows the resources to be synchronized first, and then the original helm hooks will be respected. Without this, ArgoCD will run the `db-migrate` job without deploying its dependencies, like the persistent volume claim.

For example, you can set the following in the `values.yaml` configuration:

```yaml
mastodon:
  job:
    dbMigrate:
      extraAnnotations:
        "argocd.argoproj.io/hook": PostSync
        "argocd.argoproj.io/sync-wave": "-2"
        "argocd.argoproj.io/hook-delete-policy": BeforeHookCreation,HookSucceeded

    assetsPrecompile:
      extraAnnotations:
        "argocd.argoproj.io/hook": PostSync
        "argocd.argoproj.io/sync-wave": "-2"
        "argocd.argoproj.io/hook-delete-policy": BeforeHookCreation,HookSucceeded

    chewyUpgrade:
      extraAnnotations:
        "argocd.argoproj.io/hook": PostSync
        "argocd.argoproj.io/sync-wave": "-1"
        "argocd.argoproj.io/hook-delete-policy": BeforeHookCreation,HookSucceeded

    createAdmin:
      extraAnnotations:
        "argocd.argoproj.io/hook": PostSync
        "argocd.argoproj.io/sync-wave": "-1"
        "argocd.argoproj.io/hook-delete-policy": BeforeHookCreation,HookSucceeded
```

# Administration

You can run [admin CLI](https://docs.joinmastodon.org/admin/tootctl/) commands in the web deployment.

```bash
kubectl -n mastodon exec -it deployment/mastodon-web -- bash
tootctl accounts modify admin --reset-password
```

or
```bash
kubectl -n mastodon exec -it deployment/mastodon-web -- tootctl accounts modify admin --reset-password
```

# Missing features

Currently this chart does _not_ support:

- Hidden services
- Swift

# Upgrading

Because database migrations are managed as a Job separate from the Rails and
Sidekiq deployments, it’s possible they will occur in the wrong order.  After
upgrading Mastodon versions, it may sometimes be necessary to manually delete
the Rails and Sidekiq pods so that they are recreated against the latest
migration.

# Upgrades in 2.1.0

## ingressClassName and tls-acme changes
The annotations previously defaulting to nginx have been removed and support
 for ingressClassName has been added.
```yaml
ingress:
  annotations:
    kubernetes.io/ingress.class: nginx
    kubernetes.io/tls-acme: "true"
```

To restore the old functionality simply add the above snippet to your `values.yaml`,
but the recommendation is to replace these with `ingress.ingressClassName` and use
cert-manager's issuer/cluster-issuer instead of tls-acme.
If you're uncertain about your current setup leave `ingressClassName` empty and add
`kubernetes.io/tls-acme` to `ingress.annotations` in your `values.yaml`.

# Upgrades in 2.0.0

## Fixed labels
Because of the changes in [#19706](https://github.com/mastodon/mastodon/pull/19706) the upgrade may fail with the following error:
```Error: UPGRADE FAILED: cannot patch "mastodon-sidekiq"```

If you want an easy upgrade and you're comfortable with some downtime then
simply delete the -sidekiq, -web, and -streaming Deployments manually.

If you require a no-downtime upgrade then:
1. run `helm template` instead of `helm upgrade`
2. Copy the new -web and -streaming services into `services.yml`
3. Copy the new -web and -streaming deployments into `deployments.yml`
4. Append -temp to the name of each deployment in `deployments.yml`
5. `kubectl apply -f deployments.yml` then wait until all pods are ready
6. `kubectl apply -f services.yml`
7. Delete the old -sidekiq, -web, and -streaming deployments manually
8. `helm upgrade` like normal
9. `kubectl delete -f deployments.yml` to clear out the temporary deployments

## PostgreSQL passwords
If you've previously installed the chart and you're having problems with
postgres not accepting your password then make sure to set `username` to
`postgres` and `password` and `postgresPassword` to the same passwords.
```yaml
postgresql:
  auth:
    username: postgres
    password: <same password>
    postgresPassword: <same password>
```

And make sure to set `password` to the same value as `postgres-password`
in your `mastodon-postgresql` secret:
```kubectl edit secret mastodon-postgresql```