== v0.21.0 [2017-06-12] Michael Granger <ged@FaerieMUD.org>

Enhancements:
- Move add_dll_directory to the Runtime namespace for newest versions
  of RubyInstaller.
- Deprecate PGconn, PGresult, and PGError top-level constants; a warning
  will be output the first time one of them is used. They will be
  removed in the upcoming 1.0 release.

Documentation fixes:
- Update the docs for PG::Result#cmd_tuples


== v0.20.0 [2017-03-10] Michael Granger <ged@FaerieMUD.org>

Enhancements:
- Update error codes to PostgreSQL-9.6
- Update Windows binary gems to Ruby-2.4, PostgreSQL 9.6.1 and
  OpenSSL 1.0.2j.
- Add support for RubyInstaller2 to Windows binary gems.

Bugfixes:
- Use secure JSON methods for JSON (de)serialisation. #248
- Fix Result#inspect on a cleared result.
- Fix test case that failed on Ruby-2.4. #255

Documentation fixes:
- Talk about Integer instead of Fixnum.
- Fix method signature of Coder#encode.


== v0.19.0 [2016-09-21] Michael Granger <ged@FaerieMUD.org>

- Deprecate Ruby 1.9

Enhancements:
- Respect and convert character encoding of all strings sent
  to the server. #231
- Add PostgreSQL-9.5 functions PQsslInUse(), PQsslAttribute()
  and PQsslAttributeNames().
- Various documentation fixes and improvements.
- Add mechanism to build without pg_config:
    gem install pg -- --with-pg-config=ignore
- Update Windows binary gems to Ruby-2.3, PostgreSQL 9.5.4 and
  OpenSSL 1.0.2f.
- Add JSON coders and add them to BasicTypeMapForResults and
  BasicTypeMapBasedOnResult
- Allow build from git per bundler.

Bugfixes:
- Release GVL while calling PQsetClientEncoding(). #245
- Add __EXTENSIONS__ to Solaris/SmartOS for Ruby >= 2.3.x. #236
- Fix wrong exception when running SQL while in Connection#copy_data
  block for output


== v0.18.4 [2015-11-13] Michael Granger <ged@FaerieMUD.org>

Enhancements:
- Fixing compilation problems with Microsoft Visual Studio 2008. GH #10
- Avoid name clash with xcode and jemalloc. PR#22, PR#23

Bugfixes:
- Avoid segfault, when quote_ident or TextEncoder::Identifier
  is called with Array containing non-strings. #226


== v0.18.3 [2015-09-03] Michael Granger <ged@FaerieMUD.org>

Enhancements:
- Use rake-compiler-dock to build windows gems easily.
- Add CI-tests on appveyor and fix test cases accordingly.

Bugfixes:
- Fix data type resulting in wrong base64 encoding.
- Change instance_of checks to kind_of for subclassing. #220
- TextDecoder::Date returns an actual Ruby Date instead of a Time
  (thanks to Thomas Ramfjord)


== v0.18.2 [2015-05-14] Michael Granger <ged@FaerieMUD.org>

Enhancements:

- Allow URI connection string (thanks to Chris Bandy)
- Allow Array type parameter to conn.quote_ident

Bugfixes:

- Speedups and fixes for PG::TextDecoder::Identifier and quoting behavior
- Revert addition of PG::Connection#hostaddr [#202].
- Fix decoding of fractional timezones and timestamps [#203]
- Fixes for non-C99 compilers
- Avoid possible symbol name clash when linking againt static libpq.


== v0.18.1 [2015-01-05] Michael Granger <ged@FaerieMUD.org>

Correct the minimum compatible Ruby version to 1.9.3. #199


== v0.18.0 [2015-01-01] Michael Granger <ged@FaerieMUD.org>

Bugfixes:
- Fix OID to Integer mapping (it is unsigned now). #187
- Fix possible segfault in conjunction with notice receiver. #185

Enhancements:

- Add an extensible type cast system.
- A lot of performance improvements.
- Return frozen String objects for result field names.
- Add PG::Result#stream_each and #stream_each_row as fast helpers for
  the single row mode.
- Add Enumerator variant to PG::Result#each and #each_row.
- Add PG::Connection#conninfo and #hostaddr.
- Add PG.init_openssl and PG.init_ssl methods.
- Add PG::Result.inspect
- Force zero termination for all text strings that are given to libpq.
  It raises an ArgumentError if the string contains a null byte.
- Update Windows cross build to PostgreSQL 9.3.



== v0.17.1 [2013-12-18] Michael Granger <ged@FaerieMUD.org>

Bugfixes:

- Fix compatibility with signal handlers defined in Ruby. This reverts
  cancelation of queries running on top of the blocking libpq API (like
  Connection#exec) in case of signals. As an alternative the #async_exec
  can be used, which is reverted to use the non-blocking API, again.
- Wrap PQcancel to be called without GVL. It internally waits for
  the canceling connection.

Documentation fixes:

- Fix documentation for PG::Connection::conndefaults.


== v0.17.0 [2013-09-15] Michael Granger <ged@FaerieMUD.org>

Bugfixes:

- Fix crash by calling PQsend* and PQisBusy without GVL (#171).

Enhancements:

- Add method PG::Connection#copy_data.
- Add a Gemfile to allow installation of dependencies with bundler.
- Add compatibility with rake-compiler-dev-box.
- Return self from PG::Result#check instead of nil. This allows
  to stack method calls.


== v0.16.0 [2013-07-22] Michael Granger <ged@FaerieMUD.org>

Bugfixes:

- Avoid warnings about uninitialized instance variables.
- Use a more standard method of adding library and include directories.
  This fixes build on AIX (Github #7) and Solaris (#164).
- Cancel the running query, if a thread is about to be killed (e.g. by CTRL-C).
- Fix GVL issue with wait_for_notify/notifies and notice callbacks.
- Set proper encoding on the string returned by quote_ident, escape_literal
  and escape_identifier (#163).
- Use nil as PG::Error#result in case of a NULL-result from libpq (#166).
- Recalculate the timeout of conn#wait_for_notify and conn#block in case
  of socket events that require re-runs of select().

Documentation fixes:

- Fix non working example for PGresult#error_field.

Enhancements:

- Add unique exception classes for each PostgreSQL error type (#5).
- Return result of the block in conn#transaction instead of nil (#158).
- Allow 'rake compile' and 'rake gem' on non mercurial repos.
- Add support for PG_DIAG_*_NAME error fields of PostgreSQL-9.3 (#161).


== v0.15.1 [2013-04-08] Michael Granger <ged@FaerieMUD.org>

Bugfixes:

- Shorten application_name to avoid warnings about truncated identifier.


== v0.15.0 [2013-03-03] Michael Granger <ged@FaerieMUD.org>

Bugfixes:

- Fix segfault in PG::Result#field_values when called with non String value.
- Fix encoding of messages delivered by notice callbacks.
- Fix text encoding for Connection#wait_for_notify and Connection#notifies.
- Fix 'Bad file descriptor' problems under Windows: wrong behaviour of
  #wait_for_notify() and timeout handling of #block on Ruby 1.9.

Documentation fixes:

- conn#socket() can not be used with IO.for_fd() on Windows.

Enhancements:

- Tested under Ruby 2.0.0p0.
- Add single row mode of PostgreSQL 9.2.
- Set fallback_application_name to programm name $0. Thanks to Will Leinweber
  for the patch.
- Release Ruby's GVL while calls to blocking libpq functions to allow better
  concurrency in threaded applications.
- Refactor different variants of waiting for the connection socket.
- Make use of rb_thread_fd_select() on Ruby 1.9 and avoid deprecated
  rb_thread_select().
- Add an example of how to insert array data using a prepared statement (#145).
- Add continous integration tests on travis-ci.org.
- Add PG::Result#each_row for iterative over result sets by row. Thanks to
  Aaron Patterson for the patch.
- Add a PG::Connection#socket_io method for fetching a (non-autoclosing) IO
  object for the connection's socket.

Specs:

- Fix various specs to run on older PostgreSQL and Ruby versions.
- Avoid fork() in specs to allow usage on Windows and JRuby.


== v0.14.1 [2012-09-02] Michael Granger <ged@FaerieMUD.org>

Important bugfix:

- Fix stack overflow bug in PG::Result#values and #column_values (#135). Thanks
  to everyone who reported the bug, and Lars Kanis especially for figuring out
  the problem.

PostgreSQL 9.2 beta fixes:

- Recognize PGRES_SINGLE_TUPLE as OK when checking PGresult (Jeremy Evans)

Documentation fixes:

- Add note about the usage scope of the result object received by the
  #set_notice_receiver block. (Lars Kanis)
- Add PGRES_COPY_BOTH to documentation of PG::Result#result_status. (Lars Kanis)
- Add some documentation to PG::Result#fnumber (fix for #139)


== v0.14.0 [2012-06-17] Michael Granger <ged@FaerieMUD.org>

Bugfixes:
  #47, #104


New Methods for PostgreSQL 9 and async API support:
PG
- ::library_version

PG::Connection
- ::ping
- #escape_literal
- #escape_identifier
- #set_default_encoding

PG::Result
- #check


New Samples:

This release also comes with a collection of contributed sample scripts for
doing resource-utilization reports, graphing database statistics,
monitoring for replication lag, shipping WAL files for replication,
automated tablespace partitioning, etc. See the samples/ directory.


== v0.13.2 [2012-02-22] Michael Granger <ged@FaerieMUD.org>

- Make builds against PostgreSQL earlier than 8.3 fail with a descriptive
  message instead of a compile failure.


== v0.13.1 [2012-02-12] Michael Granger <ged@FaerieMUD.org>

- Made use of a finished PG::Connection raise a PG::Error instead of
  a fatal error (#110).
- Added missing BSDL license file (#108)


== v0.13.0 [2012-02-09] Michael Granger <ged@FaerieMUD.org>

Reorganization of modules/classes to be better Ruby citizens (with backward-compatible aliases):
- Created toplevel namespace 'PG' to correspond with the gem name.
- Renamed PGconn to PG::Connection (with ::PGconn alias)
- Renamed PGresult to PG::Result (with ::PGresult alias)
- Renamed PGError to PG::Error (with ::PGError alias)
- Declare all constants inside PG::Constants, then include them in
  PG::Connection and PG::Result for backward-compatibility, and
  in PG for convenience.
- Split the extension source up by class/module.
- Removed old compatibility code for PostgreSQL versions < 8.3

Documentation:
- Clarified licensing, updated to Ruby 1.9's license.
- Merged authors list, added some missing people to the Contributor's
  list.
- Cleaned up the sample/ directory
- Making contact info a bit clearer, link to the Google+ page and
  the mailing list

Enhancements:
- Added a convenience method: PG.connect -> PG::Connection.new

Bugfixes:
- Fixed LATIN5-LATIN10 Postgres<->Ruby encoding conversions



== v0.12.2 [2012-01-03] Michael Granger <ged@FaerieMUD.org>

- Fix for the 1.8.7 breakage introduced by the st.h fix for alternative Ruby
  implementations (#97 and #98). Thanks to Lars Kanis for the patch.
- Encode error messages with the connection's encoding under 1.9 (#96)


== v0.12.1 [2011-12-14] Michael Granger <ged@FaerieMUD.org>

- Made rake-compiler a dev dependency, as Rubygems doesn't use the Rakefile
  for compiling the extension. Thanks to eolamey@bitbucket and Jeremy Evans
  for pointing this out.
- Added an explicit include for ruby/st.h for implementations that need it
  (fixes #95).


== v0.12.0 [2011-12-07] Michael Granger <ged@FaerieMUD.org>

- PGconn#wait_for_notify
  * send nil as the payload argument if the NOTIFY didn't have one.
  * accept a nil argument for no timeout (Sequel support)
  * Fixed API docs
  * Taint and encode event name and payload
- Handle errors while rb_thread_select()ing in PGconn#block.
  (Brian Weaver).
- Fixes for Win32 async queries (Rafał Bigaj)
- Memory leak fixed: Closing opened WSA event. (rafal)
- Fixes for #66 Win32 asynchronous queries hang on connection
  error. (rafal)
- Fixed a typo in PGconn#error_message's documentation
- fixing unused variable warnings for ruby 1.9.3 (Aaron Patterson)
- Build system bugfixes
- Converted to Hoe
- Updates for the Win32 binary gem builds (Lars Kanis)


== v0.11.0 [2011-02-09] Michael Granger <ged@FaerieMUD.org>

Enhancements:

* Added a PGresult#values method to fetch all result rows as an Array of
  Arrays. Thanks to Jason Yanowitz (JYanowitz at enovafinancial dot com) for
  the patch.


== v0.10.1 [2011-01-19] Michael Granger <ged@FaerieMUD.org>

Bugfixes:

* Add an include guard for pg.h
* Simplify the common case require of the ext
* Include the extconf header
* Fix compatibility with versions of PostgreSQL without PQgetCancel. (fixes #36)
* Fix require for natively-compiled extension under Windows. (fixes #55)
* Change rb_yield_splat() to rb_yield_values() for compatibility with Rubinius. (fixes #54)


== v0.10.0 [2010-12-01] Michael Granger <ged@FaerieMUD.org>

Enhancements:

* Added support for the payload of NOTIFY events (w/Mahlon E. Smith)
* Updated the build system with Rubygems suggestions from RubyConf 2010

Bugfixes:

* Fixed issue with PGconn#wait_for_notify that caused it to miss notifications that happened after
  the LISTEN but before the wait_for_notify.

== v0.9.0 [2010-02-28] Michael Granger <ged@FaerieMUD.org>

Bugfixes.

== v0.8.0 [2009-03-28] Jeff Davis <davis.jeffrey@gmail.com>

Bugfixes, better Windows support.

