= Builder 2.1.1 Released.

Release 2.1.1 of Builder is mainly a bug fix release.

== Changes in 2.1.1

* Added <tt>reveal</tt> capability to BlankSlate.

* Fixed a bug in BlankSlate where including a module into Object could
  cause methods to leak into BlankSlate.

* Fixed typo in XmlMarkup class docs (from Martin Fowler).

* Fixed test on private methods to differentiate between targetted and
  untargetted private methods.

* Removed legacy capture of @self in XmlBase (@self was used back when
  we used instance eval).

* Added additional tests for global functions (both direct and
  included).

* Several misc internal cleanups, including rearranging the source
  code tree.

<b>NOTE:</b> The escaping attribute values by default is different
than in previous releases of Builder.  This makes version 2.0.x
somewhat incompatible with the 1.x series of Builder.  If you use "&",
"<", or ">" in attributes values, you may have to change your
code. (Essentially you remove the manual escaping.  The new way is
easier, believe me).

== What is Builder?

Builder::XmlMarkup is a library that allows easy programmatic creation
of XML markup.  For example:

  builder = Builder::XmlMarkup.new(:target=>STDOUT, :indent=>2)
  builder.person { |b| b.name("Jim"); b.phone("555-1234") }

will generate:

  <person>
    <name>Jim</name>
    <phone>555-1234</phone>
  </person>

== Availability

The easiest way to get and install builder is via RubyGems ...

  gem install builder    (you may need root/admin privileges)

== Thanks

* Martin Fowler for spotting some typos in the documentation.

-- Jim Weirich
