.Dd June 12, 2016
.Dt RAKE 1
.Os rake 11.2.2
.Sh NAME
.Nm rake
.Nd make-like build utility for Ruby
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Op Fl f Ar rakefile
.Op Ar options
.Ar targets ...
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm
is a
.Xr make 1 Ns -like
build utility for Ruby.
Tasks and dependencies are specified in standard Ruby syntax.
.Sh OPTIONS
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Fl m , Fl -multitask
Treat all tasks as multitasks.
.It Fl B , Fl -build-all
Build all prerequisites, including those which are up\-to\-date.
.It Fl j , Fl -jobs Ar num_jobs
Specifies the maximum number of tasks to execute in parallel (default is number of CPU cores + 4).
.El
.Ss Modules
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Fl I , Fl -libdir Ar libdir
Include
.Ar libdir
in the search path for required modules.
.It Fl r , Fl -require Ar module
Require
.Ar module
before executing
.Pa rakefile .
.El
.Ss Rakefile location
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Fl f , Fl -rakefile Ar filename
Use
.Ar filename
as the rakefile to search for.
.It Fl N , Fl -no-search , Fl -nosearch
Do not search parent directories for the Rakefile.
.It Fl G , Fl -no-system , Fl -nosystem
Use standard project Rakefile search paths, ignore system wide rakefiles.
.It Fl R , Fl -rakelib Ar rakelibdir , Fl -rakelibdir Ar rakelibdir
Auto-import any .rake files in
.Ar rakelibdir
(default is
.Sq rakelib )
.It Fl g , Fl -system
Use system-wide (global) rakefiles (usually
.Pa ~/.rake/*.rake ) .
.El
.Ss Debugging
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Fl -backtrace Ns = Ns Ar out
Enable full backtrace.
.Ar out
can be
.Dv stderr
(default) or
.Dv stdout .
.It Fl t , Fl -trace Ns = Ns Ar out
Turn on invoke/execute tracing, enable full backtrace.
.Ar out
can be
.Dv stderr
(default) or
.Dv stdout .
.It Fl -suppress-backtrace Ar pattern
Suppress backtrace lines matching regexp
.Ar pattern .
Ignored if
.Fl -trace
is on.
.It Fl -rules
Trace the rules resolution.
.It Fl n , Fl -dry-run
Do a dry run without executing actions.
.It Fl T , Fl -tasks Op Ar pattern
Display the tasks (matching optional
.Ar pattern )
with descriptions, then exit.
.It Fl D , Fl -describe Op Ar pattern
Describe the tasks (matching optional
.Ar pattern ) ,
then exit.
.It Fl W , Fl -where Op Ar pattern
Describe the tasks (matching optional
.Ar pattern ) ,
then exit.
.It Fl P , Fl -prereqs
Display the tasks and dependencies, then exit.
.It Fl e , Fl -execute Ar code
Execute some Ruby code and exit.
.It Fl p , Fl -execute-print Ar code
Execute some Ruby code, print the result, then exit.
.It Fl E , Fl -execute-continue Ar code
Execute some Ruby code, then continue with normal task processing.
.El
.Ss Information
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Fl v , Fl -verbose
Log message to standard output.
.It Fl q , Fl -quiet
Do not log messages to standard output.
.It Fl s , Fl -silent
Like
.Fl -quiet ,
but also suppresses the
.Sq in directory
announcement.
.It Fl X , Fl -no-deprecation-warnings
Disable the deprecation warnings.
.It Fl -comments
Show commented tasks only
.It Fl A , Fl -all
Show all tasks, even uncommented ones (in combination with
.Fl T
or
.Fl D )
.It Fl -job-stats Op Ar level
Display job statistics.
If
.Ar level
is
.Sq history ,
displays a complete job list.
.It Fl V , Fl -version
Display the program version.
.It Fl h , Fl H , Fl -help
Display a help message.
.El
.Sh SEE ALSO
The complete documentation for
.Nm rake
has been installed at
.Pa /usr/share/doc/rake-doc/html/index.html .
It is also available online at
.Lk https://ruby.github.io/rake .
.Sh AUTHORS
.An -nosplit
.Nm
was written by
.An Jim Weirich Aq Mt jim@weirichhouse.org .
.Pp
This manual was created by
.An Caitlin Matos Aq Mt caitlin.matos@zoho.com
for the Debian project (but may be used by others).
It was inspired by the manual by
.An Jani Monoses Aq Mt jani@iv.ro
for the Ubuntu project.
