# Introduction

This is a [Helm](https://helm.sh/) chart for installing Mastodon into a
Kubernetes cluster.  The basic usage is:

1. `helm repo add https://mastodon.github.io/mastodon`
1. Copy `values.yaml` and update to your own values
1. `helm install --namespace mastodon --create-namespace my-mastodon mastodon/mastodon -f path/to/my/values.yaml`

This chart is tested with k8s 1.21+ and helm 3.6.0+.

# Configuration

The variables that _must_ be configured are:

- password and keys in the `mastodon.secrets`, `postgresql`, and `redis` groups; if
  left blank, some of those values will be autogenerated, but will not persist
  across upgrades.

- SMTP settings for your mailer in the `mastodon.smtp` group.

# Administration

You can run [admin CLI](https://docs.joinmastodon.org/admin/tootctl/) commands in the web deployment.

```bash
kubectl -n mastodon exec -it deployment/mastodon-web -- bash
tootctl accounts modify admin --reset-password
```

or
```bash
kubectl -n mastodon exec -it deployment/mastodon-web -- tootctl accounts modify admin --reset-password
```

# Missing features

Currently this chart does _not_ support:

- Hidden services
- Swift

# Upgrading

Because database migrations are managed as a Job separate from the Rails and
Sidekiq deployments, it’s possible they will occur in the wrong order.  After
upgrading Mastodon versions, it may sometimes be necessary to manually delete
the Rails and Sidekiq pods so that they are recreated against the latest
migration.

# Upgrades in 2.1.0

## ingressClassName and tls-acme changes
The annotations previously defaulting to nginx have been removed and support
 for ingressClassName has been added.
```yaml
ingress:
  annotations:
    kubernetes.io/ingress.class: nginx
    kubernetes.io/tls-acme: "true"
```

To restore the old functionality simply add the above snippet to your `values.yaml`,
but the recommendation is to replace these with `ingress.ingressClassName` and use
cert-manager's issuer/cluster-issuer instead of tls-acme.
If you're uncertain about your current setup leave `ingressClassName` empty and add
`kubernetes.io/tls-acme` to `ingress.annotations` in your `values.yaml`.

# Upgrades in 2.0.0

## Fixed labels
Because of the changes in [#19706](https://github.com/mastodon/mastodon/pull/19706) the upgrade may fail with the following error:
```Error: UPGRADE FAILED: cannot patch "mastodon-sidekiq"```

If you want an easy upgrade and you're comfortable with some downtime then
simply delete the -sidekiq, -web, and -streaming Deployments manually.

If you require a no-downtime upgrade then:
1. run `helm template` instead of `helm upgrade`
2. Copy the new -web and -streaming services into `services.yml`
3. Copy the new -web and -streaming deployments into `deployments.yml`
4. Append -temp to the name of each deployment in `deployments.yml`
5. `kubectl apply -f deployments.yml` then wait until all pods are ready
6. `kubectl apply -f services.yml`
7. Delete the old -sidekiq, -web, and -streaming deployments manually
8. `helm upgrade` like normal
9. `kubectl delete -f deployments.yml` to clear out the temporary deployments

## PostgreSQL passwords
If you've previously installed the chart and you're having problems with 
postgres not accepting your password then make sure to set `username` to
`postgres` and `password` and `postgresPassword` to the same passwords.
```yaml
postgresql:
  auth:
    username: postgres
    password: <same password>
    postgresPassword: <same password>
```

And make sure to set `password` to the same value as `postgres-password`
in your `mastodon-postgresql` secret:
```kubectl edit secret mastodon-postgresql```

# Contributing

We're happy to have changes from the community to help build and improve the Mastodon helm chart.
All changes should be accompanied by an update to the `charts/mastodon/CHANGELOG.md` file.

## Versioning

When a contributor is ready to deploy a new version of the helm chart, please take the following steps:

1. Update the `charts/mastodon/CHANGELOG.md` file with a new header section with the release number and today's date
  - Such as `[2.4.0] - 2022-11-14`
1. Update the version number in `charts/mastodon/Chart.yaml`

After the PR is merged into main, a new release will be created in Github and the chart will be deployed to Github pages.

## Notes

- Any changes to `appVersion` in `Chart.yaml` should also have at least a minor version increase to the helm chart `version`.
