=== Net::LDAP 0.16.1

* Send DN and newPassword with password_modify request {#271}[https://github.com/ruby-ldap/ruby-net-ldap/pull/271]

=== Net::LDAP 0.16.0

* Sasl fix {#281}[https://github.com/ruby-ldap/ruby-net-ldap/pull/281]
* enable TLS hostname validation {#279}[https://github.com/ruby-ldap/ruby-net-ldap/pull/279]
* update rubocop to 0.42.0 {#278}[https://github.com/ruby-ldap/ruby-net-ldap/pull/278]

=== Net::LDAP 0.15.0

* Respect connect_timeout when establishing SSL connections {#273}[https://github.com/ruby-ldap/ruby-net-ldap/pull/273]

=== Net::LDAP 0.14.0

* Normalize the encryption parameter passed to the LDAP constructor {#264}[https://github.com/ruby-ldap/ruby-net-ldap/pull/264]
* Update Docs: Net::LDAP now requires ruby >= 2 {#261}[https://github.com/ruby-ldap/ruby-net-ldap/pull/261]
* fix symbol proc {#255}[https://github.com/ruby-ldap/ruby-net-ldap/pull/255]
* fix trailing commas {#256}[https://github.com/ruby-ldap/ruby-net-ldap/pull/256]
* fix deprecated hash methods {#254}[https://github.com/ruby-ldap/ruby-net-ldap/pull/254]
* fix space after comma {#253}[https://github.com/ruby-ldap/ruby-net-ldap/pull/253]
* fix space inside brackets {#252}[https://github.com/ruby-ldap/ruby-net-ldap/pull/252]
* Rubocop style fixes {#249}[https://github.com/ruby-ldap/ruby-net-ldap/pull/249]
* Lazy initialize Net::LDAP::Connection's internal socket {#235}[https://github.com/ruby-ldap/ruby-net-ldap/pull/235]
* Support for rfc3062 Password Modify, closes #163 {#178}[https://github.com/ruby-ldap/ruby-net-ldap/pull/178]

=== Net::LDAP 0.13.0

Avoid this release for because of an backwards incompatibility in how encryption
is initialized https://github.com/ruby-ldap/ruby-net-ldap/pull/264. We did not
yank it because people have already worked around it.

* Set a connect_timeout for the creation of a socket {#243}[https://github.com/ruby-ldap/ruby-net-ldap/pull/243]
* Update bundler before installing gems with bundler {#245}[https://github.com/ruby-ldap/ruby-net-ldap/pull/245]
* Net::LDAP#encryption accepts string {#239}[https://github.com/ruby-ldap/ruby-net-ldap/pull/239]
* Adds correct UTF-8 encoding to Net::BER::BerIdentifiedString {#242}[https://github.com/ruby-ldap/ruby-net-ldap/pull/242]
* Remove 2.3.0-preview since ruby-head already is included {#241}[https://github.com/ruby-ldap/ruby-net-ldap/pull/241]
* Drop support for ruby 1.9.3 {#240}[https://github.com/ruby-ldap/ruby-net-ldap/pull/240]
* Fixed capitalization of StartTLSError {#234}[https://github.com/ruby-ldap/ruby-net-ldap/pull/234]

=== Net::LDAP 0.12.1

* Whitespace formatting cleanup {#236}[https://github.com/ruby-ldap/ruby-net-ldap/pull/236]
* Set operation result if LDAP server is not accessible {#232}[https://github.com/ruby-ldap/ruby-net-ldap/pull/232]

=== Net::LDAP 0.12.0

* DRY up connection handling logic {#224}[https://github.com/ruby-ldap/ruby-net-ldap/pull/224]
* Define auth adapters {#226}[https://github.com/ruby-ldap/ruby-net-ldap/pull/226]
* add slash to attribute value filter {#225}[https://github.com/ruby-ldap/ruby-net-ldap/pull/225]
* Add the ability to provide a list of hosts for a connection {#223}[https://github.com/ruby-ldap/ruby-net-ldap/pull/223]
* Specify the port of LDAP server by giving INTEGRATION_PORT {#221}[https://github.com/ruby-ldap/ruby-net-ldap/pull/221]
* Correctly set BerIdentifiedString values to UTF-8  {#212}[https://github.com/ruby-ldap/ruby-net-ldap/pull/212]
* Raise Net::LDAP::ConnectionRefusedError when new connection is refused. {#213}[https://github.com/ruby-ldap/ruby-net-ldap/pull/213]
* obscure auth password upon #inspect, added test, closes #216 {#217}[https://github.com/ruby-ldap/ruby-net-ldap/pull/217]
* Fixing incorrect error class name {#207}[https://github.com/ruby-ldap/ruby-net-ldap/pull/207]
* Travis update {#205}[https://github.com/ruby-ldap/ruby-net-ldap/pull/205]
* Remove obsolete rbx-19mode from Travis {#204}[https://github.com/ruby-ldap/ruby-net-ldap/pull/204]
* mv "sudo" from script/install-openldap to .travis.yml {#199}[https://github.com/ruby-ldap/ruby-net-ldap/pull/199]
* Remove meaningless shebang {#200}[https://github.com/ruby-ldap/ruby-net-ldap/pull/200]
* Fix Travis CI build {#202}[https://github.com/ruby-ldap/ruby-net-ldap/pull/202]
* README.rdoc: fix travis link {#195}[https://github.com/ruby-ldap/ruby-net-ldap/pull/195]

=== Net::LDAP 0.11
* Major enhancements:
  * #183 Specific errors subclassing Net::LDAP::Error
* Bug fixes:
  * #176 Fix nil tls options
  * #184 Search guards against nil queued reads. Connection#unescape handles numerics
* Code clean-up:
  * #180 Refactor connection establishment

=== Net::LDAP 0.10.1
* Bug fixes:
  * Fix Integer BER encoding of signed values

=== Net::LDAP 0.10.0
* Major enhancements:
  * Accept SimpleTLS/StartTLS encryption options (compatible with `OpenSSL::SSL::SSLContext#set_params`)
* Bug fixes:
  * Parse filter strings with square and curly braces (`[]` and `{}`)
  * Handle connection timeout errors (`Errno::ETIMEDOUT` raised as `Net::LDAP::LdapError`)
* Testing changes:
  * Add integration tests for StartTLS connections to OpenLDAP
* Meta changes:
  * Update Gem release tooling (remove Hoe, use Rake)
  * Fix Gem release date

=== Net::LDAP 0.9.0
* Major changes:
  * Dropped support for ruby 1.8.7, ruby >= 1.9.3 now required
* Major enhancements:
  * Add support for search time limit parameter
  * Instrument received messages, PDU parsing
* Minor enhancments:
  * Add support for querying ActiveDirectory capabilities from root dse
* Bug fixes:
  * Fix reads for multiple concurrent requests with shared, open connections mixing up the results
  * Fix search size option
  * Fix BER encoding bug
* Code clean-up:
  * Added integration test suite
  * Switch to minitest

* Details
  * #150 Support querying ActiveDirectory capabilities when searching root dse
  * #142 Encode true as xFF
  * #124, #145, #146, #152 Cleanup gemspec
  * #138, #144 Track response messages by message id
  * #141 Magic number/constant cleanup
  * #119, #129, #130, #132, #133, #137 Integration tests
  * #115 Search timeout support
  * #140 Fix search size option
  * #139 Cleanup and inline documentation for Net::LDAP::Connection#search
  * #131 Instrumentation
  * #116 Refactor Connection#write
  * #126 Update gitignore
  * #128 Fix whitespace
  * #113, #121 Switch to minitest
  * #123 Base64 encoded dn
  * #114 Separate file for Net::LDAP::Connection
  * #104 Parse version spec in LDIF datasets
  * #106 ldap.modify doc fixes
  * #111 Fix test deprecations

=== Net::LDAP 0.5.0 / 2013-07-22
* Major changes:
  * Required Ruby version is >=1.9.3
* Major enhancements:
  * Added alias dereferencing (@ngwilson)
  * BER now unescapes characters that are already escaped in the source string (@jzinn)
  * BerIdentifiedString will now fall back to ASCII-8 encoding if the source Ruby object cannot be encoded in UTF-8 (@lfu)
* Bug fixes:
  * Fixed nil variable error when following a reference response (@cmdrclueless)
  * Fixed FilterParser unable to parse multibyte strings (@satoryu)
  * Return ConverterNotFound when dealing with a potentially corrupt data response (@jamuc)

=== Net::LDAP 0.3.1 / 2012-02-15
* Bug Fixes:
  * Bundler should now work again

=== Net::LDAP 0.3.0 / 2012-02-14
* Major changes:
  * Now uses UTF-8 strings instead of ASCII-8 per the LDAP RFC
* Major Enhancements:
  * Adding continuation reference processing
* Bug Fixes:
  * Fixes usupported object type #139
  * Fixes Net::LDAP namespace errors
  * Return nil instead of an empty array if the search fails

=== Net::LDAP 0.2.2 / 2011-03-26
* Bug Fixes:
  * Fixed the call to Net::LDAP.modify_ops from Net::LDAP#modify.

=== Net::LDAP 0.2.1 / 2011-03-23
* Bug Fixes:
  * Net::LDAP.modify_ops was broken and is now fixed.

=== Net::LDAP 0.2 / 2011-03-22
* Major Enhancements:
  * Net::LDAP::Filter changes:
    * Filters can only be constructed using our custom constructors (eq, ge,
      etc.). Cleaned up the code to reflect the private new.
    * Fixed #to_ber to output a BER representation for :ne filters. Simplified
      the BER construction for substring matching.
    * Added Filter.join(left, right), Filter.intersect(left, right), and
      Filter.negate(filter) to match Filter#&, Filter#|, and Filter#~@ to
      prevent those operators from having problems with the private new.
    * Added Filter.present and Filter.present? aliases for the method
      previously only known as Filter.pres.
    * Added Filter.escape to escape strings for use in filters, based on
      rfc4515.
    * Added Filter.equals, Filter.begins, Filter.ends and Filter.contains,
      which automatically escape input for use in a filter string.
    * Cleaned up Net::LDAP::Filter::FilterParser to handle branches better.
      Fixed some of the regular expressions to be more canonically defined.
    * Correctly handles single-branch branches.
    * Cleaned up the string representation of Filter objects.
    * Added experimental support for RFC4515 extensible matching (e.g.,
      "(cn:caseExactMatch:=Fred Flintstone)"); provided by "nowhereman".
  * Net::LDAP::DN class representing an automatically escaping/unescaping
    distinguished name for LDAP queries.
* Minor Enhancements:
  * SSL capabilities will be enabled or disabled based on whether we can load
    OpenSSL successfully or not.
  * Moved the core class extensions extensions from being in the Net::LDAP
    hierarchy to the Net::BER hierarchy as most of the methods therein are
    related to BER-encoding values. This will make extracting Net::BER from
    Net::LDAP easier in the future.
  * Added some unit tests for the BER core extensions.
  * Paging controls are only sent where they are supported.
* Documentation Changes:
  * Core class extension methods under Net::BER.
  * Extensive changes to Net::BER documentation.
  * Cleaned up some rdoc oddities, suppressed empty documentation sections
    where possible.
  * Added a document describing how to contribute to Net::LDAP most
    effectively.
  * Added a document recognizing contributors to Net::LDAP.
* Extended unit testing:
  * Added some unit tests for the BER core extensions.
  * The LDIF test data file was split for Ruby 1.9 regexp support.
  * Added a cruisecontrol.rb task.
  * Converted some test/unit tests to specs.
* Code clean-up:
  * Made the formatting of code consistent across all files.
  * Removed Net::BER::BERParser::TagClasses as it does not appear to be used.
  * Replaced calls to #to_a with calls to Kernel#Array; since Ruby 1.8.3, the
    default #to_a implementation has been deprecated and should be replaced
    either with calls to Kernel#Array or [value].flatten(1).
  * Modified #add and #modify to return a Pdu#result_code instead of a
    Pdu#result. This may be changed in Net::LDAP 1.0 to return the full
    Pdu#result, but if we do so, it will be that way for all LDAP calls
    involving Pdu objects.
  * Renamed Net::LDAP::Psw to Net::LDAP::Password with a corresponding filename
    change.
  * Removed the stub file lib/net/ldif.rb and class Net::LDIF.
* Project Management:
  * Changed the license from Ruby + GPL to MIT with the agreement of the
    original author (Francis Cianfrocca) and the named contributors. Versions
    prior to 0.2.0 are still available under the Ruby + GPL license.

=== Net::LDAP 0.1.1 / 2010-03-18
* Fixing a critical problem with sockets.

=== Net::LDAP 0.1 / 2010-03-17
* Small fixes throughout, more to come.
* Ruby 1.9 support added.
* Ruby 1.8.6 and below support removed. If we can figure out a compatible way
  to reintroduce this, we will.
* New maintainers, new project repository location. Please see the README.txt.

=== Net::LDAP 0.0.5 / 2009-03-xx
* 13 minor enhancements:
  * Added Net::LDAP::Entry#to_ldif
  * Supported rootDSE searches with a new API.
  * Added [preliminary (still undocumented) support for SASL authentication.
  * Supported several constructs from the server side of the LDAP protocol.
  * Added a "consuming" String#read_ber! method.
  * Added some support for SNMP data-handling.
  * Belatedly added a patch contributed by Kouhei Sutou last October.
    The patch adds start_tls support.
  * Added Net::LDAP#search_subschema_entry
  * Added Net::LDAP::Filter#parse_ber, which constructs Net::LDAP::Filter
    objects directly from BER objects that represent search filters in
    LDAP SearchRequest packets.
  * Added Net::LDAP::Filter#execute, which allows arbitrary processing
    based on LDAP filters.
  * Changed Net::LDAP::Entry so it can be marshalled and unmarshalled.
    Thanks to an anonymous feature requester who only left the name
    "Jammy."
  * Added support for binary values in Net::LDAP::Entry LDIF conversions
    and marshalling.
  * Migrated to 'hoe' as the new project droid.
* 14 bugs fixed:
  * Silenced some annoying warnings in filter.rb. Thanks to "barjunk"
    for pointing this out.
  * Some fairly extensive performance optimizations in the BER parser.
  * Fixed a bug in Net::LDAP::Entry::from_single_ldif_string noticed by
    Matthias Tarasiewicz.
  * Removed an erroneous LdapError value, noticed by Kouhei Sutou.
  * Supported attributes containing blanks (cn=Babs Jensen) to
    Filter#construct. Suggested by an anonymous Rubyforge user.
  * Added missing syntactic support for Filter ANDs, NOTs and a few other
    things.
  * Extended support for server-reported error messages. This was provisionally
    added to Net::LDAP#add, and eventually will be added to other methods.
  * Fixed bug in Net::LDAP#bind. We were ignoring the passed-in auth parm.
    Thanks to Kouhei Sutou for spotting it.
  * Patched filter syntax to support octal \XX codes. Thanks to Kouhei Sutou
    for the patch.
  * Applied an additional patch from Kouhei.
  * Allowed comma in filter strings, suggested by Kouhei.
  * 04Sep07, Changed four error classes to inherit from StandardError rather
    Exception, in order to be friendlier to irb. Suggested by Kouhei.
  * Ensure connections are closed. Thanks to Kristian Meier.
  * Minor bug fixes here and there.

=== Net::LDAP 0.0.4 / 2006-08-15
* Undeprecated Net::LDAP#modify. Thanks to Justin Forder for
  providing the rationale for this.
* Added a much-expanded set of special characters to the parser
  for RFC-2254 filters. Thanks to Andre Nathan.
* Changed Net::LDAP#search so you can pass it a filter in string form.
  The conversion to a Net::LDAP::Filter now happens automatically.
* Implemented Net::LDAP#bind_as (preliminary and subject to change).
  Thanks for Simon Claret for valuable suggestions and for helping test.
* Fixed bug in Net::LDAP#open that was preventing #open from being
  called more than one on a given Net::LDAP object.

=== Net::LDAP 0.0.3 / 2006-07-26
* Added simple TLS encryption.
  Thanks to Garett Shulman for suggestions and for helping test.

=== Net::LDAP 0.0.2 / 2006-07-12
* Fixed malformation in distro tarball and gem.
* Improved documentation.
* Supported "paged search control."
* Added a range of API improvements.
* Thanks to Andre Nathan, andre@digirati.com.br, for valuable
  suggestions.
* Added support for LE and GE search filters.
* Added support for Search referrals.
* Fixed a regression with openldap 2.2.x and higher caused
  by the introduction of RFC-2696 controls. Thanks to Andre
  Nathan for reporting the problem.
* Added support for RFC-2254 filter syntax.

=== Net::LDAP 0.0.1 / 2006-05-01
* Initial release.
* Client functionality is near-complete, although the APIs
  are not guaranteed and may change depending on feedback
  from the community.
* We're internally working on a Ruby-based implementation
  of a full-featured, production-quality LDAP server,
  which will leverage the underlying LDAP and BER functionality
  in Net::LDAP.
* Please tell us if you would be interested in seeing a public
  release of the LDAP server.
* Grateful acknowledgement to Austin Ziegler, who reviewed
  this code and provided the release framework, including
  minitar.
